[THEME MUSIC]
>> Since December 1980, the
mystery about what happened
in Rendlesham Forest, near
NATO's largest air base
at the time, RAF
Bentwaters Woodbridge,
has grown in complexity and
national security importance.
One key fact I learned from
Colonel Charles Halt himself.
He was Deputy Base
Commander at the large NATO
base when the lights and beams
showed up over a 72-hour period
from midnight December
26 to sun up December 28.
Over those three
nights the number
of military eyewitnesses of the
unidentified aerial phenomena
was some 30 people,
including the first night
drama of missing time and a
black, glassy, triangular craft
that emerged out of a
blast of white light
in front of Staff Sergeant
Jim Penniston and Airman First
Class John Burroughs.
The Colonel sat down privately
with John Burroughs and me
at a May 2010
National Press Club
conference in Washington DC.
John and I were there to do
a joint presentation that
included some new hypnosis
that John did in October 2008
that I had videotaped.
You will see segments
in this "Truth Hunter."
During our private
conversation Colonel Halt
asserted that the US National
Security Agency, the NSA,
took over the Rendlesham Forest
investigation within 24 hours
after Burroughs, Penniston,
and Airman Ed Cabansag first
investigated strange, colorful
lights in Rendlesham Forest
after midnight on December 26.
The three men ended
up with missing time
and confused memories.
Even Central Security Control
confirmed that for 45 minutes
there was nothing
but static when CSC
tried to reach them on radios.
Oddly, the one night
we know the least about
is the middle night
of December 27,
because no one who had military
authority will talk about it.
Yet that is the night that
Airman Lori Buoen and John
Trementozzi heard their D-flight
Shift Commander, Lieutenant
Bonnie Tamplin,
yelling and crying
on the military radio for help
from Master Sergeant Robert
Ball.
The Airman also knew the Deputy
Base Commander, Lieutenant
Colonel Charles Halt, was
alerted about Lieutenant
Tamplin's emotional breakdown.
I'll have another eyewitness
later on in this "Truth Hunter"
series that says
Colonel Halt was even
at the Rendlesham forest site
that night of December 27.
But to date neither
Halt, nor Tamplin,
nor Ball have ever talked
on the record about what
happened in Rendlesham Forest
the night of December 27th,
1980.
While something serious
was happening in the forest
to make the D-flight Shift
Commander scream publicly
over the military radio, Airman
First Class John Burroughs
suddenly woke up in
the same early morning
hours of December 27 in a
state of extreme agitation.
He told me, quote, "I
had a strong feeling
that the lights were back."
Close quote.
Even if he was off duty,
he felt an urgent need
to see the lights again.
He knew nothing about Lieutenant
Tamplin, Sergeant Ball, Colonel
Hall, Lori Buoen,
or John Trementozzi,
but he was so tense
about getting back
to the strange lights that John
Burroughs got an early morning
ride from where he was
staying in Ipswich back
to the RAF Bentwaters Desk
Sergeant, named O'Brien.
John asked what was happening
in Rendlesham Forest
and O'Brien told him that
D-flight Shift Commander
Lieutenant Bonnie Tamplin
had been relieved of her duty
because a light entered
her vehicle in the forest.
The light scared Lieutenant
Tamplin to panic and crying
during her radio communications.
The assumption is that
Lieutenant Tamplin
had gone in to Rendlesham Forest
with D-flight Master Sergeant
Robert Ball to investigate Lori
Buoen's fiery sphere report.
And when John Burroughs learned
about the D-flight Shift
Commander encountering
a light in her vehicle
that terrified her,
he was even more
determined to get back
to Rendlesham Forest
that night of December 27 to
28, even though his C-flight
was off duty.
We'll hear more
about what happened
to John in a few minutes.
But first, more drama unfolded
in the forest that afternoon
of December 27th
beginning at 4:00 PM,
when Staff Sergeant Monroe
Nevels, a disaster preparedness
technician at RAF Bentwaters,
had a surprise visit.
Knocking on his door was
Lieutenant Bruce England,
the Shift Commander
for Bravo flight.
Both Sergeant Nevels
and Lieutenant England
had served in the Marines before
re-enlisting in the US Air
Force.
Lieutenant England
told Sergeant Nevels
he was there on
top secret orders
by the RAF Bentwaters Base
Commander Colonel Ted Conrad.
>> Lieutenant England told me
that one of the airmen had been
taken aboard the spacecraft.
>> And he was talking about
what had happened at least two
nights earlier.
Can you talk about that?
>> Yes, he just basically
went through and told me about
talking to Jim Penniston and
John Burroughs were involved.
I do remember the
names were mentioned.
And he said even at to
point that someone had been
abducted into the aircraft.
And he said, the
reason Colonel Conrad
had asked for me to come
get you is because he felt
that if he wanted an
honest answer from anybody
then you would give it to him.
So it's my orders.
They are down at the
Woodbridge officer's club
and they are having
a party down there.
And when we get through
with our investigation,
he will be waiting for us.
And we have to go back
and make a report to him.
>> Sergeant Nevels says
Lieutenant England took him
to a triangular depression
in the forest soil.
That must have been the site
where Staff Sergeant Jim
Penniston and Airman First
Class John Burroughs encountered
the bright, white light and
the black, triangular craft
the night before after
midnight on December 26.
This photograph was taken by
Master Sergeant Ray Gulyas
after sun up on December 26.
And was reprinted by UK
researcher and author
Georgina Bruni in her book
published in 2000 entitled,
"You Can't Tell The People."
That title came from a
conversation Georgina
had with then UK Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher,
who said about the
RAF Bentwaters mystery
quote, "UFOs, you must
get your facts right.
And you can't tell the people."
Close quote.
In the center of the
photograph is Constable Brian
Creswell of the Suffolk
police examining
a triangle of
depressions in the soil
each marked by a stick
and orange circle.
On the right is
Captain Mike Verano,
the Day Shift Commander.
The far right stick is next
to Captain Verano's leg.
The top of the photo is
east, toward the Orford Ness
lighthouse.
Well, you can't
see a lighthouse.
You can't see anything through
the thick Rendlesham trees.
That fact reinforces how phony
the so-called Orford lighthouse
explanation was that
counter-intelligence
used to try to keep the
public and the media away.
Each of the three indentations
in the forest soil
were the shape of a triangle
pressed about two inches
into the ground, as
in this photo of one
on the morning of December 26th,
photographed by Master Sergeant
Ray Gulyas.
The three depressions
formed a triangular pattern
that was measured by a local
forester as 8.2 feet apart
at its longest length.
Staff Sergeant Penniston
called it nine feet.
There were also fresh
scorch marks on the trees
where branches were broken off.
But how did something
so large move so rapidly
through the thick
Rendlesham forest?
As Lieutenant England
showed Staff Sergeant Nevels
around the site, the two
men also saw a bright light
in the trees.
Sergeant Nevels looked through
the night vision goggles
and said there was a bright
light with a dark center that
reminded him of a human eye and
pupil that blinked on and off.
He and Lieutenant England
left the forest around 8:00 PM
December 27, 1980, and reported
to base commander Colonel Ted
Conrad at the Woodbridge
officer's Christmas party.
Sergeant Nevels
told Colonel Conrad
that the situation merited
more investigation.
Also at the Christmas party
was deputy base commander,
Lieutenant Colonel Charles
Halt. Colonel Conrad
turned further
investigation over to him.
So Colonel Halt,
Lieutenant Bruce England,
Staff Sergeant Monroe Nevels,
Staff Sergeant Adrian Bustinza,
and several security police were
organized into a search party
with pickup trucks
and light-alls.
Sergeant Nevels also took
his AN/PDR 27F geiger counter
that measures both beta
and gamma radiation.
He used the geiger counter
on the tripod depressions
and burn marks that he
found at the same height
on trees that grew around
the tripod depressions.
Sergeant Nevels did not
get any beta readings,
but he did see an average of
seven milliroentgens of gamma
radiation.
An hour exposure of seven
milliroentgens of gamma
is equivalent to about one
third of a chest x-ray.
Further, each of the three
indentations in the ground
had an angle shape that
was somewhat triangular,
pressed two inches
into the ground.
Behind the scenes
the UK Ministry
of Defens's DI 55
intelligence division
was investigating
the radioactivity
of the triangular depressions
in Rendlesham Forest.
Colonel Halt is the voice
on this brief excerpt
from his 18-minute audio tape.
>> We are getting an indication
of a heat source coming out
of that, some form of energy,
broken branches on the ground.
>> What is it?
>> We don't know, sir.
Small, red lights.
Keep the starlight scope on
it, weird, coming this way.
No doubt about it.
This is weird.
Looks like a eye winking at you.
When you put the
starlight scope on it,
it's like a pupil
of an eye winking.
We've got strange objects moving
away from us, a beam coming out
of the ground.
This is unreal.
>> The objects stopped
overhead and sent down a beam.
The best way I can
describe it is a laser beam
because the light did not
radiate out like a light would
do but came straight down.
It fell on our feet.
And we were quite concerned.
The light was a very
bright white light,
probably 15, 20
inches in diameter
when it hit the ground.
It was right in front of us,
less than 10 feet or 15 feet
away.
>> What happened at that moment?
>> We stood there in awe.
Is it a signal?
Is it a warning?
Is it a method of communication?
What do we do?
And we just stood there for--
I don't know-- 5, 10
seconds, maybe 15 seconds,
and it was gone.
I mean, it disappeared as
suddenly as it appeared.
It was so shocking that-- wow.
At the same time, we were
continuously having problems
with out radios on
all three frequencies
we were on, picking up radio
signals from the weapons
storage area, and they were
indicating that the objects
were over there.
There were multiple objects in
the sky at that time, at least
four if not five or more.
>> Were they all white?
>> No.
They changed color.
And they changed shape
from round to elliptical.
>> Colors?
>> Gosh, red, blue,
green I think.
When the thing went overhead
and the lights approached us,
stopped overhead and
it sent a beam down.
Oh, my God, we all
went into shock almost.
How am I ever
gonna explain this?
Nobody's gonna believe this.
This is a kiss of
death for my career.
>> Staff Sergeant Monroe
Nevels was with Colonel Halt
in the forest when the beams
came down so close to them
on December 28 after midnight.
>> What we saw was so
fast, and it disappeared.
We were in awe about where
did it go, what did it do.
>> And Monroe, did you see those
thin beams of light come down?
>> Yes, I did.
Those beams, when
it came down, they
looked like a very
faint laser beam.
They were pencil thin.
We could see it
against the black sky.
When we looked out and saw
those pencil-thin beams,
I told Colonel Halt
that I believed
that something is trying
to tap into what we've got.
I mean, what is it that
they're trying to find out?
Because it's obvious they'd
been shot down to the ground
and had to be doing something--
taking photos, penetrating
or trying to generate
some heat to the ground
or whatever the situation was.
The lights would disappear
and be gone in a blink.
You could blink your eye and
look up and they'd be gone.
And Bentwaters would announce
on their radios back to us,
we see it, sir.
We see it.
It's over us.
And then when it
disappeared from their side,
we immediately was able
to say, here it is.
In other words, it was like it
was instantaneous from there
to where we were.
>> That same night
around 4:00 AM,
John Burroughs was given
permission by Colonel Halt
to go into the forest with
Staff Sergeant Adrian Bustinza.
Here now is another
brief excerpt
from John Burroughs' 1988
hypnosis, in which he joins
Lieutenant Colonel
Charles Halt's
investigation in Rendlesham
Forest after midnight
December 28.
With Lieutenant Colonel
Halt are several men,
including Airman First Class
Chris Arnold and Airman
Bartholomew, who are mentioned.
This is John's second
encounter with the lights,
and he begins listening
to Colonel Halt.
>> I go to Colonel
Halt. It's back again!
I can't believe it.
He acted like he
wasn't surprised.
He was real calm.
But the other
people were scared.
They were, it's weird.
They were very surprised
and very, very upset.
Colonel Halt and I
were standing there.
Arnold and I were
standing there.
And he was good friends with
Colonel Halt. What happened,
Colonel?
Weird things.
He goes, weird things.
He goes, we had things
hover on top of--
they were making contact
with their minds.
And I looked at him, what
are you talking about?
He said, little blue lights.
The craft is still
hovering up there.
He goes, they're coming
from their craft.
They've been out
there for hours.
And I go, well, I
want to go get closer.
And he says, OK.
He goes, you can come with me.
But Chris, I want you and
Bartholomew to stay here.
Take the light off of the truck.
And he goes, John, I
want you to go out there,
because I think you
can bring us closer.
What do you mean?
>> Who told you that?
>> Colonel Halt. I think you
can bring this ship and these
things closer.
They want you to do it.
And I'm like--
>> Who wanted you to do it?
Colonel Halt?
>> Colonel Halt said they did.
That's all he said was that.
>> Does he appear to have some
knowledge or some understanding
that you don't understand?
>> I didn't understand
what was going on.
I was--
>> He seemed to know
something that you didn't?
>> He seemed to be very at
peace of mind and very calm.
And like he--
something-- he goes,
this is the most bizarre,
weirdest experience.
People will never believe it.
>> Do you know why they thought
you could bring it closer?
>> No.
I didn't understand.
And that was something that
I never understood, either.
They wanted me there, and they
wanted me there in stages.
Like you can stay in
this area for a while.
They weren't surprised
that I was there, either.
They were not surprised.
The people that saw me come
out there were surprised,
but Colonel Halt
was not surprised.
And they kept me in stages.
They kept me waiting, like
wait in here, wait in there.
And now it's OK.
>> What happened then?
>> Well, then he put his
arm around me, and he said,
let's go.
And then there was some--
all of a sudden there was
this short buck sergeant,
and he was Mexican.
And he was there.
He appeared.
He appeared coming up,
like coming towards me.
Like he wasn't with
the main group.
He was like coming up toward me.
And he says, let's go.
Three of us walked
towards the craft.
And Colonel Halt goes, I've
got all this on tape recording.
And he shows me a tape recorder.
And he has a radio with
him, too-- his radio.
And he goes, and I'm
recording all this
through the wing command post.
He goes, I'm going to
keep all this stuff,
because it's gonna
be worth something.
And he goes, let's go.
So we started walking.
And the light was there,
and it was in the distance.
And we walked really farther.
And then, there it was!
Three blue lights.
He goes, there they are!
Yeah, there they are!
And he goes, that's
what we had before.
And he goes, John,
he goes, you're
never gonna believe
this, but a group of us,
they made contact with us.
They were on top of us.
It was like they spoke to us.
I go, they?
What's they?
And he goes, these lights.
I go, you mean
you saw something?
He goes, these lights.
He goes, there
were lights there,
and they were speaking to us.
They were over us.
They were flying in the sky.
They were hovering over us.
They were doing all
kinds of things.
>> Now, John, hold it right
there where you can see those
blue lights.
Now I want you to look
at one of those lights
and ask the question
that comes to your mind.
And that light will
talk back to you.
Tell me what it says.
>> Come to me.
>> OK, now what did you do?
>> They started moving.
And we all froze.
And they were up and down.
>> You mean the lights?
>> Yeah.
They split up.
>> OK, now ask them
what they represent.
Ask that light what
it's representing.
>> The craft.
>> OK.
Now, is there any life
form in or with that craft?
>> That was the life form.
>> The light is the life form.
John felt the lights themselves
were intelligent entities.
That could also
explain what happened
when Airman John Burroughs
and Sergeant Adrian Bustinza
were running next to each other
toward the red and white lights
in the farmer's field.
That's when Adrian fell to
the ground on John's right.
And John only remembers getting
close to red-orange lights,
and he does not
remember anything else.
Later, Adrian told
Burroughs, quote,
"The light forced
me to the ground,
and I saw the red-orange light
come over you," close quote.
Was John Burroughs
abducted twice,
after midnight on December
26 and again on December 28
by these peculiar lights?
John is still haunted
by what happened
to him in Rendlesham
Forest December 26
and December 28, 1980.
He is especially troubled by the
fact that he cannot consciously
remember what happened when he
was close to the lights both
nights.
John still has strange
dreams, cannot sleep well,
and feels like something in
his mind wants to come out.
In 2008, John
Burroughs contacted me
about his anxieties
and said he wondered
if I could find a qualified
hypnotherapist who
could try to penetrate
the block on his memory.
Phoenix clinical
hypnotherapist Melinda Vail
works with post-traumatic
shock cases with young people
and agreed to help.
I hoped that John could
break through to full memory.
Here are brief highlights from
the October 2008 hypnosis.
John is drawn to
mysterious lights
that seem to be
communicating telepathically
and that had what looked
like a blinking eye
reminiscent of what Sergeant
Monroe Nevels and Colonel
Halt also described
seeing in the forest.
>> And you're
outside, aren't you?
>> Whoa!
>> It's all right, sweetheart.
What is it?
>> Oh!
There was like 20 of them.
>> OK, it's all right.
It's all right.
Tell me about them.
I've got you.
>> They just were there.
>> I've got you.
>> As soon-- oh!
Tell me about them.
>> Oh, now--
>> It's all right.
It's all right.
I've got you.
Tell me about them.
>> They're just there.
>> OK, what are they?
>> I never-- I don't know.
>> OK.
What do they--
>> The milky surface is there,
and then they're there behind
it.
>> OK.
What do they look like?
>> Little specks of blue lights.
>> OK.
What do they mean?
>> I don't know.
Oh, God.
It won't let me.
>> It won't let
you go back there?
>> Every time-- every
time I go, it gets strong.
Oh.
And it wants to
pull me towards it.
>> OK, sweetheart.
>> And when I think,
it comes towards me,
and then it pulls me towards it.
>> Mhm.
>> Oh!
It's wrong.
>> OK.
It's OK.
>> Oh.
I have to tell you.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> It's all right.
>> Oh, they're coming at me.
>> It's the lights
that are coming at you?
>> Little ones.
OK.
What does it feel like
when they come at you?
>> It just startles me.
>> OK.
>> [BREATHING HEAVILY] Oh, God.
>> You're all right.
I've got you.
What else do you see there?
>> Just a huge--
now it's getting
bigger and bigger--
like milky white object or
substance that just keeps
going up, down, wider, smaller.
Then there's a eye or
something behind it.
>> And it's interfering
with your ability to go back
in time?
>> Every-- every time
you ask me to go back,
the smaller objects or the thing
appear, and it gets stronger.
Now there's a hole between it,
like the hole's opening up.
>> Uh-huh.
Do you see anything in the hole?
>> [MOANING] No.
Wow.
>> What does the
hole mean to you?
>> I don't know.
>> Whatever happened to John
Burroughs on December 26
and 28, an unidentified aerial
craft hovered stationary over
this hot row of stored nuclear
weapons at the RAF Bentwaters
weapons storage area,
also known as the WSA.
Those nuke bunkers were
watched around the clock
by security from the WSA
alarm station watch tower.
The Delta flight security
chief in the Bentwaters tower
the night of December 27 to
28 was Sergeant Rick Bobo.
The tower was 50
feet above the ground
to give a clear 360-degree view.
Sergeant Bobo's priority was to
report any threat to the WSA.
That night, he watched a
large, reddish blue light
in the sky that hovered
stationary for nearly two hours
and also periodically emitted
smaller white lights that
sped rapidly down into
Rendlesham Forest.
At least twice, Sergeant
Bobo phoned central security
control.
And in each call, he was told
the situation was under control
because there was an
investigation in the forest.
That was Colonel Halt's group.
Rick Bobo returned
from the Air Force
to work in the Indiana
Department of Transportation,
the state in which he
was born and raised.
I talked with Rick in a recorded
phone interview for radio
about what he saw and heard
during his D flight security
shift in the
Bentwaters WSA tower
after midnight on
December 28, 1980.
>> It looked really big,
and there was red and blue.
And I did see something
come down from it
and went down into the woods.
>> And how long were you able
to see that reddish blue large
light?
>> Oh, goodness-- it
was there a long time.
It just sat there.
It didn't go anywhere.
It just sat in one spot.
I think you could have
put a cross-hair on it
and it never would have moved.
>> Wow.
>> Never wavered.
>> So Sergeant Rick Bobo up in
the WSA watchtower remembers
hearing John Burrough's voice on
the radio when Colonel Halt was
in the forest with all the men
and equipment and insists no
beams came down into
the Bentwaters WSA.
But he did see with his own
eyes small, white lights
leave the large, glowing
red and blue object
in the sky and head straight
down for Rendlesham Forest.
Finally, after 30 years,
retired Colonel Charles Halt,
the former RAF Bentwaters
deputy base commander,
went on the record in a June 25,
2009 press release to state--
>> I wish to make it perfectly
clear that UFOs I saw were
structured machines moving under
intelligent control and were
operating beyond the realm of
anything I've ever seen before
or since.
I believe the objects
I saw at close quarters
were extraterrestrial in
origin, and that the security
services of both the
United States and England
were and have been
complicit in trying
to subvert the significance
of what occurred
at Rendlesham by use of
well-practiced methods
of disinformation.
>> Right from the beginning,
John Burroughs and Jim Peniston
saw what they could not
explain, and something happened
to their minds,
either in the forest,
in military interrogations
later on, or both.
The results have been
blank or confused memories.
The two men were right next
to each other in the forest,
but they do not remember
the same details.
In the next "Truth Hunter,"
Staff Sergeant James Peniston
will tell us more about the
symbols on the black triangle
in Rendlesham Forest
that he touched
and the 0s and 1s
suddenly entered his mind
and would not leave
until he wrote them down
in his notebook.
This is Linda Moulton Howe.
Please stay tuned
to my "Truth Hunter"
series on Gaia for more
surprises about our universe,
the solar system, and
the planet we live on.
[THEME MUSIC]